The President:
Hi, everybody.
In 1620, a small band
of pilgrims came to this
continent, refugees who
had fled persecution
and violence in their
native land.
Nearly 400 years later, we
remember their part in the
American story -- and we
honor the men and women who
helped them in
their time of need.
Thanksgiving is a day
for food and football,
and for hoping the turkey
didn't turn out too dry.
But it's also a day to count
our blessings and give back
to others -- a reminder that
no matter our circumstances,
all of us have something
to be grateful for.
Maybe it's good health, a
new addition to the family,
or a child taking a next
step toward college or a career.
Maybe it's a new job,
or long overdue raise.
Maybe it's something as
simple, and as important,
as the chance to spend time
with the people who matter most.
Of course, every American
can be thankful for the
chance to live in a country
founded on the belief that
all of us are created equal.
And as President, I'm
thankful that I get to see
the best of America every
day -- the courage of our
troops and veterans, the
resilience of our families,
and the basic goodness of
the ordinary people
who call this country.
On this uniquely
American holiday,
we also remember that so
much of our greatness comes
from our generosity.
There's the generosity of
Americans who volunteer at
food banks and shelters,
making sure that no one goes
hungry on a day when so
many plates are full.
There's the generosity of
Americans who take part not
just in Black Friday
and Cyber Monday,
but Giving Tuesday --
recognizing that in the
holiday season, what you
give is as important
as what you get.
And I've been touched by the
generosity of the Americans
who've written me letters
and emails in recent weeks,
offering to open their homes
to refugees fleeing
the brutality of ISIL.
Now, people should remember
that no refugee can enter
our borders until they
undergo the highest security
checks of anyone traveling
to the United States.
That was the case
before Paris,
and it's the case now.
And what happened in Paris
hasn't stopped Americans
from opening
their arms anyway.
One woman from Pennsylvania
wrote me to say,
"Money is tight for us in my
household ...
But i have a guest room.
I have a pantry
full of food.
We can do this." Another
woman from Florida told me
her family's history dates
back to the Mayflower -- and
she said that welcoming
others is part of "what it
means to be an American."
Nearly four centuries after
the Mayflower set sail,
the world is still full of
pilgrims -- men and women
who want nothing more than
the chance for a safer,
better future for themselves
and their families.
What makes America America
is that we offer that chance.
We turn Lady Liberty's
light to the world,
and widen our circle of
concern to say that all
God's children are worthy
of our compassion and care.
That's part of what makes
this the greatest country
on Earth.
I hope that you and your
family have wonderful
Thanksgiving, surrounded
by loved ones,
and full of joy
and gratitude.
And together, may we all
play our own small part in
the American story, and
write a next chapter that
future generations
can be thankful for.
From the Obama
family to yours,
have a great Thanksgiving.